Well, the results all came together and people used to tell me, but Jensen, inference is so easy. Inference is the ultimate hard. Inference is ultimate hard, and it's also ultimate important because it drives your revenues. And so this is the outcome. This is from SemiAnalysis, this is the largest, most comprehensive suite of AI inference that has ever been done. And what you see here on the left on this side is tokens per watt. Tokens per watt is important because every data center, every single factory, by definition, is power constrained. A 1 gigawatt factory will never become 2. It's physically constrained, the laws of atoms, the laws of physicality. And so that 1 gigawatt of data center, you want to drive the maximum number of tokens, which is the production, the product of that factory. So you want that -- you want to be on top of that curve as high as you want.

This -- the X-axis is the interactivity, the speed of inference, the speed of each inference. The faster you can inference, the faster you could, of course, respond. But very importantly, the faster you can inference, the larger the models, the more context you could process, the more tokens you can think through, this axis is the same as smartness of the AI. And so this is the throughput of the AI. This is the smartness of the AI. Notice the smarter the AI, the lower your throughput makes sense. You're thinking longer, okay? And so this axis is the speed, and I'm going to come back to this. This is important. This is where I torture all of you, but it's too important. Every CEO in the world, you watch, every CEO in the world will study their business from now on in the way I'm about to describe. Because this is your token factory. This is your AI factory. This is your revenues. There's no question about that going forward.

And so this is the throughput. This is the intelligence. Better perf per watt for a given power of data center, the more throughput, the more tokens you could produce. On this side is cost. Notice, NVIDIA is the highest performance in the world. Nobody would be surprised by that. They would be surprised by the fact that in one generation, whereas Moore's Law would have given us through transistors, 50%, 2x, Moore's Law would probably give us 1.5x more performance. You would have expected from Hopper H200, 1.5x higher. Nobody would have expected 35x higher. I said last year, at this time that NVIDIA's Grace Blackwell, NVLink 72 was 35x perf per watt. Nobody believed me. And then SemiAnalysis came out and Dylan Patel had a quote, he accused me of sandbagging. He accused me of sandbagging. He says Jensen sandbagged. It's actually 50x, and he's not wrong. He's not wrong.

And so our cost per token is the lowest in the world. You can't beat it. I've said before, if you have the wrong architecture, even if it's free, it's not cheap enough. And the reason for that is because no matter what happens, you still have to build a gigawatt data center. You still have to build a gigawatt factory. And that gigawatt factory for 15 years amortized across that gigawatt factory is about $40 billion. Even when you put nothing on, it's $40 billion in. You better make for darn sure, you put the best computer system on that thing so that you could have the best token cost. NVIDIA's token cost is world-class, basically untouchable at the moment. And the reason that's true is because of an extreme co-design. And so I'm very happy that he named us -- there was a Monkey King, token king.

Well, we take all of our software. As I told you, we vertically integrate, but we horizontally open. We're vertical integration, horizontal open. We integrate all of our software and all of our technology, however we could package it up and integrate it into the world's inference service providers. And these companies are growing so fast. They're growing so fast. Fireworks, Lynn is here, together, they're just growing so incredibly fast. 100x in the last year. They are token factories. And the effectiveness, the performance and the token cost production capability for their factories is everything to them. And this is what happened. This is -- we updated their software, same system and notice their token speeds, incredible. The difference before NVIDIA updated everything and all of our algorithms and software and all the technology that we bring to bear, about 700 tokens per second average went to nearly 5,000, 7x higher. And so this is the incredible power of extreme codesign.

I mentioned earlier the importance of factories. This is the importance of factory. Your data center, it used to be a data center for files. It's now a factory to generate tokens. Your factory is limited no matter what. Everybody is looking for land, power and shell. Once you build it, you are power limited. Within that power limited infrastructure, you better make for darn sure that your inference because you know inference is your workload, and tokens is your new commodity, that compute is your revenues that you want to make sure that the architecture is as optimized as you can. In the future, every single CSP, every single computer company, every single cloud company, every single AI company, every single company period are going to be thinking about their token factory effectiveness. This is your factory in the future.

And the reason why I know that is because everybody in this room is powered by intelligence. And in the future, that intelligence will be augmented by tokens. So let me show you how we got here.


---

You saw this slide. Only NVIDIA's keynote where you see last year's slide presented again. And the reason for that is I just want to let you know that last year, I told you something very, very important. And it's so important, it's worthwhile to tell you again.

This is probably the single most important chart for the future of AI factories. And every CEO in the world will be tracking it, will be studying it very deeply. It's much, much more complicated than this. It's multidimensional, but you will be studying the throughput and the token speed of your AI factories, the throughput, token speed at ISO power because that's all the power you have, throughput and token speed for your factories forever. And that analysis is going to lead directly to your revenues. What you do this year will show up precisely next year as your revenues.

And this chart is what it's all about. And I said on the vertical axes, on the vertical axes -- thank you, guys. On the vertical axes is throughput.

On the horizontal axis is token rate. Today, I'm going to show you this. Because we're -- because we're now able to increase the token speed and because model sizes are increasing because the token length, the context length depending on the different grades of different application use case continues to grow from maybe 100,000 tokens input length to maybe millions.

The token input length is growing and also the output token length is growing. And so all of these play into ultimately the marketing and the pricing of future tokens. Tokens are the new commodity. And like all commodities, once it reaches an inflection, once it becomes mature or becomes maturing, it will segment into different parts. The high throughput, low speed could be used for the free tier.

The next tier could be the medium tier, larger model maybe, higher speed for sure, larger input context length. That translates to a different price point. You could see from all the different services, this one is free. It's a free tier. The first tier could be $3 per million tokens. The next tier could be $6 per million tokens. You would like to be able to keep pushing this boundary because the larger the model, smarter, the more input token context length, more relevant, the higher the speed -- the long -- the more you can think and iterate smarter AI models. So this is about smarter AI models. And when you have smarter AI models, each one of these clicks allows you to increase the price. So this is $45. And maybe one day, there'll be a premium model that allows you a premium service that allows you to generate token speeds that are incredibly high because you're in a critical path or maybe you're doing really long research and $150 per million tokens is just not a thing. So let's translate that.

Suppose you were to use 50 million tokens per day as a researcher at $150 per million tokens. As it turns out, as a research team, that's not even a thing. So we believe that this is the future. This is where AI wants to go. This is where it is today. It had to start here to establish the value and establish its usefulness and get better and better and better. In the future, you're going to see most services encompass all of that. This is Hopper. Hopper started, and I moved the chart, this is 50, this is 100. Hopper looks like this. And you would have expected Hopper, the next generation to be higher, but nobody would have expected it to be that much higher. This is Grace Blackwell.

What Grace Blackwell did is at your free tier, increase your throughput tremendously. However, where you mostly monetize your service it increased your throughput by 35x. This is no different than any product that every company makes. The higher the tier, the higher the quality, the higher the performance, the lower the volume, the lower the capacity. And so it is no different than any other business in the world.

And so now we're able to increase this tier by 35x, and we introduced a whole new tier. This is the benefit of Grace Blackwell, a huge jump over Hopper. Well, this is what we're doing with -- okay. So this is Grace Blackwell, okay? Let me just reset this, and this is Vera Rubin. -- okay? Now just think what just happened. At every single tier, at every single tier, at every single tier, we increased the throughput.

And at the tier that where your highest ASP and your most valuable segment, we increased it by 10x. That is the hard work. This is incredibly hard to do out here. This is the benefit of NVLink72. This is the benefit of extremely low latency. This is the benefit of extreme codesign that we could shift the entire area up.

Now what does it mean from a customer perspective in the end? Suppose I were to take all of that and I just multiply it against -- suppose I took 25% of my power, used it in a free tier, 25% of my power in the medium tier, 25% of my power in the high tier and 25% of my power in the premium tier. My data center only has a gigawatt. And so I get to decide how I want to distribute. The free tier allows me to attract more customers.

This allows me to serve my most valuable customers. And the combination, the product of all that allows you basically your revenues. The revenues you can generate, assuming this simplistic example, allows Blackwell to generate 5x more revenues, Vera Rubin to generate 5x. So Vera Rubin, you should get there as soon as you can.

And the reason for that is because your cost of tokens goes down and your throughput goes up. But we want even more. We want even more. And so let me just show you back to this. This is -- as I told you, this throughput requires a ton of flops. This latency, this interactivity requires enormous amount of bandwidth.

Computers don't like extreme amount of flops, extreme amount of bandwidth because there's only so much surface area for chips that any systems has. And so optimizing for high throughput and optimizing for low latency are, in fact, enemies of each other. And so this is what happened when we combined with Groq, okay?

And so we acquired the team that worked on the Groq chips and licensed the technology, and we've been working together now to integrate the system. This is what that looks like. So at the most valuable tier -- at the most valuable tier, we're now going to increase performance by 35x. Now this very simple chart revealed to you exactly the reason why NVIDIA is so strong in the vast majority of the workloads so far.

And the reason for that is because up in this area, throughput matters so much. NVLink 72 is so game changing. It is exactly the right architecture, and it's even hard to beat even as you add Groq to it. However, if you extended this chart way out here and you said you wanted to have services that delivers not 400 tokens per second, but 1,000 tokens per second, all of a sudden, NVLink 72 runs out of steam and it simply can't get there. We just don't have enough bandwidth. And so this is where Groq comes in, and this is what happens when we push that out.

So it goes out beyond -- thank you -- it goes out beyond even the limits of what NVLink 72 can do. And if you were to do that, translate that into revenues, relative to Blackwell, Vera Rubin is 5x. If most of your workload is high throughput, I would stick with just 100% Vera Rubin. If a lot of your workload wants to be coding and very high-value engineering token generation, I would add Groq to it.

I would add Groq to maybe 25% of my total data center. The rest of my data center is all 100% Vera Rubin. And so that gives you a sense of how you would add Groq to Vera Rubin and extend its performance and extend its value even more. This is what happens. This is a contrast. The reason why Groq was so attractive to me is because their computing system, a deterministic data flow processor, it is statically compiled. It is compiler scheduled, meaning the compiler figures out when do the compute -- the compute and the data arrives at the same time.

All of that is done statically in advance and scheduled completely in software. There's no dynamic scheduling. The architecture is designed with massive amounts of SRAM, it is designed just for inference, this one workload. Now this one workload, as it turns out, is the workload of AI factories. And as the world continues to increase the amount of high-speed tokens it wants to generate with super smart tokens it wants to generate, the value of this integration is going to get even higher.

And so these are 2 extreme processors you could see. One chip, 500 megabytes, 1 Vera Rubin chip -- 1 Rubin chip, 288 gigabytes -- it would take a lot of Groq chips to be able to hold the parameter size of Rubin as well as all of the context that has to go -- the KV Cache that has to go along with it. So that limited Groq's ability to really reach the mainstream to really take off until we had a great idea.

What have we disaggregated inference altogether with a piece of software called Dynamo? What have we rearchitected the way that inference is done in the pipeline so that we could put the work that makes perfect sense on Vera Rubin and then offload the decode generation, the low latency, the bandwidth limited challenged part of the workload for Groq. And so we united, unified processors of extreme differences, one for high throughput, one for low latency.

It still doesn't change the fact that we need a lot of memory. And so Groq, we're just going to add a whole bunch of Groq chips, which expands the amount of memory it has. And so if you could just imagine, out of 1 trillion parameter model, we have to store all of that in Groq chips.

However, it sits next to NVIDIA Vera Rubin, where we could hold the massive amounts of KV Cache that's necessary in processing all of these agentic AI systems. It's based upon this idea of disaggregated inference. We do the prefill, that's the easy part, but we also tightly integrate the decode.

So the attention part of decode is done on NVIDIA's Vera Rubin, which needs a lot of math and the feed forward network part of it, the decode part is done -- the token generation part is done on Vera Rubin -- on the Groq chip. The 2 of them working tightly coupled together over today, Ethernet with a special mode to reduce its latency by about half.

And so that capability allows us to integrate these 2 systems. We run Dynamo, this incredible operating system for AI factories on top of it, and you get 35x increase, not to mention additional new tiers of inference performance for token generation the world has never seen. So this is it. This is Groq. The Vera Rubin systems, including Groq I want to thank Samsung, who manufactures the Groq LP30 chip for us, and they're cranking as hard as they can. I really appreciate you guys.

We're in production with the Groq chip, and we'll ship it in the second half, probably about Q3 time frame, okay? Groq LPX. Vera Rubin, it's kind of hard to imagine any more customers.

And the really great thing is Grace Blackwell, early sampling of it was really complicated because of coming together of NVLink 72, but the sampling of Vera Rubin is just going incredibly well. And in fact, Satya, I think, texted out already that the first Vera Rubin rack is already up and running at Microsoft Azure.

And so I'm super excited for them. We're going to keep cranking these things out. We have now set up a supply chain that can manufacture thousands a week of these systems, essentially multi-gigawatts of AI factories per month inside our supply chain. And so we're going to crank out these Vera Rubin racks while we're cranking out the GB 300 racks. We are in full production.

The Vera CPUs incredibly successful. And the reason for that is because AI needs CPUs for tool use. and Vera CPU was designed just perfectly for that sweet spot, incredible for the next generation of data processing. Vera CPU is ideal. The Vera CPU plus BlueField plus CX9 connected into the BlueField 4 stack, 100% of the world's storage industry is joining us on this system.

And the reason for that is because they see exactly the same thing. The storage system is going to get pounded. It's going to get pounded because we used to have humans using the storage systems. We used to have humans using SQL.

Now we're going to have AIs using these storage systems, and it's going to store cuDF accelerated storage, cuVS accelerated storage as well as very importantly, KV Caching, okay? So this is the Vera Rubin system. Now what's amazing is this, in just 2 years' time, in a 1 gigawatt factory -- in just 2 years' time, in 1 gigawatt factory, using the mathematics that I showed you earlier, whereas Moore's Law would have given us a couple of steps, we would have x factored the number of transistors. We would have x factored the number of flops. We would have x factored the number of amount of bandwidth.

But with this architecture, we're going to take our token generation speed, token generation rate from 2 million to 700 million, 350x increase. This is the power of extreme co-design. This is what I mean when we integrate and optimize vertically, but then we open it horizontally for everybody to enjoy. This is our road map very quickly. Blackwell is here, the Oberon system. In the case of Rubin, we have the Oberon system. We're always backwards compatible so that if you wanted to not change anything and just keep on moving through with the new architecture, you could do so.

The old system -- the standard rack system, Oberon, still available. Oberon is copper scale up. And with Oberon, we could also use optical scale-out -- or excuse me, optical scale up to expand to NVLink 576, okay? And so there's a lot of conversation about is NVIDIA going to copper scale up or optical scale up?

We're going to do both. So we're going to have NVLink 144 with Kyber and then with Oberon, we're going to NVLink 72 plus optical to get to NVLink 576. The next generation of Rubin with Rubin Ultra, we have the Rubin Ultra chip, which is coming -- which is taping out.

And we have a brand-new chip, LP35. LP35 will, for the first time, incorporate NVIDIA's NVFP4 computing structure, give you another few X factor speed up, okay? And so this is Oberon NVLink 72 optical scale up, and it uses Spectrum 6, the world's first co-packaged optical and all of this is in production. The next generation from here is Feynman. Feynman has a new GPU, of course. It also has a new LPU, LP40, big step up, incredible, incredible new technology.

Now uniting the scale of NVIDIA and the Groq team building together LP40 is going to be incredible. A brand-new CPU called Rosa, short for Rosline, BlueField 5, which connects the next CPU with the next SuperNIC CX10. We will have Kyber which is copper scale up, we will also have Kyber CPO scale up.

So for the first time, we will scale up with both copper and co-packaged optics, okay? And so a lot of people have been asking, Jensen, is copper going to still be important? The answer is yes. Jensen, are you going to scale up optical? Yes. Are you going to scale out optical? Yes.

And so for everybody who is in our ecosystem, we need a lot more capacity, and that's really the key. We need a lot more capacity for copper. We need a lot more capacity for optics. We need a lot more capacity for CPO. And that's the reason why we've been working with all of you to lay the foundation for this level of growth. And so Feynman will have all of that.

Let me see if I missed everything. That's it. Every single year, brand-new architecture. Very quickly, NVIDIA went from a chip company to an AI factory company or AI infrastructure company, AI computing company, these systems. And now we're building entire AI factories. There's so much power that is squandered in these AI factories. We want to make sure that these AI factories come together, designed in the best possible way.

